# G10: Enabling An Efficient Unified GPU Memory and Storage Architecture with Smart Tensor Migrations  (Artifact)

In this artifact, we provide the source code of G10 and the necessary instructions to reproduce the key performance results in our paper.

## 0. Hardware and Software Dependencies

The artifact can be executed on any x86 machine with at least 30 GB of main memory and at least 120 GB of disk space. We strongly recommend running the artifact on a workstation with multi-cores and at least 128 GB memory. The artifact needs a Linux environment (preferably Ubuntu) and a compiler that supports the C++14 standard.

## 1. Installation

### 1.1 Downloading the Repository
Use the following command to download the artifact:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:HieronZhang/G10-Artifact.git
```

### 1.2 Installation

Install the following dependencies:
```bash
sudo apt install flex bison tmux python3-pip
```

Build G10 (the output executable is named `sim`):
```bash
cd src
make clean
make
```


## 2. Experiment Workflow
This section describes the steps to generate and run the necessary experiments. We strongly recommend that the reader follow the `src/resources/README.md` to understand more about each script used in this section.

### 2.1 Gnenrating Configuration Files
The first step is to generate appropriate config files. In this artifact, we provide the Python script `resources/genconfigs.py` to generate all the config files used in this artifact (in the `src/configs/` directory).
```bash
python3 resources/genconfigs.py
```

### 2.2 Launching A Single Experiment
Every configuration file specifies the DNN model and the batch size to be used, as well as other system configuration parameters (such as GPU memory size, SSD Bandwidth, the baseline type, and so on). All the DNN model graph information and their execution traces are already included if users use the configs generated by the `resources/genconfigs.py` script.

To run a single experiment, directly find its corresponding config file and use ((use G10-(BERT, batchsize=256)) as an example)):
```bash
./sim "$relative_path_to_config_file"
    # e.g.,  ./sim configs/BERT/256-sim_prefetch_lru.config
```

The program will execute the Tensor Vitality Analysis and Smart Tensor Migration Algorithms, and do a performance simulation of the DNN training. The results will be generated in `"$G10_HOME"/results` directory.

For each experiment, our program will generate separate logs for analyzed DNN graph information, tensor vitality analysis results, smart tensor migration scheduling, and performance simulation results. See `results/README.md` for more details of our program's output.

### 2.3 Launching Batched Experiments
To run a large number of experiments at one time, we provide the `resources/run.sh` Shell script. It can use regular expressions to match multiple config files, and it will automatically spawn different experiments to multiple `tmux` windows for parallel execution.

To evaluate all the experiments more conveniently, we provide a Shell script, `artifact_run.sh`, which will be introduced in the next section. To run individual experiments corresponding to the figures in the paper, see lines 23-45 of `artifact_run.sh`:
```bash
# First run experiments for figure 11-14
./run.sh -p "(BERT\/256|VIT\/1280|Inceptionv3\/1536|ResNet152\/1280|SENet154\/1024)-sim_(deepUM|prefetch_lru|FlashNeuron|G10GDSSSD|G10GDSFULL|lru)\.config" -dr -j $MAX_PROCESS_NUM
# The time for running this is about 104m33.975s (for MAX_PROCESS_NUM=6)

# Then run experiments for figure 15
./run.sh -p "(BERT\/(128|256|512|768|1024)|VIT\/(256|512|768|1024|1280)|Inceptionv3\/(512|768|1024|1280|1536|1792)|ResNet152\/(256|512|768|1024|1280)|SENet154\/(256|512|768|1024))-sim_(deepUM|prefetch_lru|FlashNeuron|lru)\.config" -dr -j $MAX_PROCESS_NUM
# The time for running this is about 155m11.104s (for MAX_PROCESS_NUM=6)

# Then run experiments for figure 16
./run.sh -p "(BERT\/(256|384|512|640)|VIT\/(768|1024|1280|1536)|Inceptionv3\/(512|1024|1280|1536)|ResNet152\/(768|1024|1280|1536)|SENet154\/(256|512|768|1024))-sim_prefetch_lru(-cpu(0|16|32|64|96|192|256))?\.config" -dr -j $MAX_PROCESS_NUM
# The time for running this is about 406m30.954s (for MAX_PROCESS_NUM=6)

# Then run experiments for figure 17
./run.sh -p "(VIT\/1024|Inceptionv3\/1280)-sim_(deepUM|prefetch_lru|FlashNeuron)-cpu(0|16|32|64|256)\.config" -dr -j $MAX_PROCESS_NUM
# The time for running this is about 24m8.144s (for MAX_PROCESS_NUM=6)

# Then run experiments for figure 18
./run.sh -p "(BERT\/512|VIT\/1280|Inceptionv3\/1536|ResNet152\/1280|SENet154\/1024)-sim_(deepUM|prefetch_lru|FlashNeuron|lru)-ssd(6_4|12_8|19_2|25_6|32)-.*\.config" -dr -j $MAX_PROCESS_NUM
# The time for running this is about 354m40.747s (for MAX_PROCESS_NUM=6)

# Then run experiments for figure 19
./run.sh -p "(BERT\/256|VIT\/1280|Inceptionv3\/1536|ResNet152\/1280|SENet154\/1024)-sim_prefetch_lru-var0_(05|10|15|20|25)\.config" -dr -j $MAX_PROCESS_NUM
# The time for running this is about 124m17.909s (for MAX_PROCESS_NUM=6)

```
The variable `MAX_PROCESS_NUM` is the maximum allowed number of parallel experiments in the script. Note that user may have to change the `MAX_PROCESS_NUM` based on their machine's main memory capacity (Each experiment requires a peak memory of about 28.5 GB). See lines 1-6 of `artifact_run.sh`:
```bash
# --------------------------------- IMPORTART -------------------------------------------------
# ! Please modify this number based on your machine's main memory capacity. One experiment process will need a peak memory of 28.5 GB.
# We recommend reserving 30 GB for each process to ensure that the program won't crash.
# For example, if your machine has 128 GB of main memory, this number can be set as 4.
MAX_PROCESS_NUM=4
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## 4. Experiment Customization

### 4.1 Changing Simulation Configurations
In addition to the provided configurations, users can also customize their own config files and evaluate other settings. The simplest way to do this is to modify the `resources/genconfigs.py` script. Note that we only provided DNN training execution traces used in our paper. 

### 4.2 Custom DNN Training Profiling
Users can also generate their own traces of DNN training on their own GPUs. It's also possible to generate traces for customized batch sizes. Custom profiling can be done by modifying the config files named "profile" rather than "sim", and running them with the G10 executable (`sim`). Note that to do this, users have to first correctly install `CUDA` (11.0 and higher) Tool-kits with `cudnn` and `cublas` libraries. Before profiling, please make sure that the CUDA code generation part of our framework is built:
```bash
cd G10-Artifact/src/cudnn
make clean && make
```
